Mary Lynn Ritzenthaler, R-I-T-Z-E-N-T-H-A-L-E-R, Supervisory Conservator at the National Archives.
Supervisory, once again?
Conservator.
Right.
And what else would you like?
Is that it?
Phone number?
Oh, yeah, phone number would be excellent.
301-713-6700, extension
Do you like email?
That's fine, too.
Yeah.
That is MaryLynn, one word, m-a-r-y-l-y-n-n dot Ritzenthaler at ARCH2, A-R-C-H numeral 2, dot NARA, N-A-R-A.
ARCH2, A-R-C-H numeral 2, dot?
NARA, N-A-R-A, dot gov, G-O-V.
Okay, good.
Tell me a little bit, let's start just generally.
You are, it says the four billion pieces of paper are yours.
Is that right?
Well, collectively we share the responsibility.
We have a staff of about 24 people in our unit, which is the Document Conservation Laboratory.
And we consist of conservators, a few chemists, and people in the conservation lab have specialties that range from
primarily paper-based materials.
We have book conservators, and we have one photo conservator, and people who have really spent years working in various media, thinking about how things have been fabricated and what goes wrong when they have not been stored properly or handled properly.
One of the problems faced in the archives, I think, historically has been
the fact that the archives was not established until the mid-1930s.
So the records that we have resided for many, many years in, I guess as people like to say, the attics in the basements of federal agencies around the D.C.
area, oftentimes under conditions that were not very ideal.
And so we have records in our custody that when we received them already had some problems.
How do we decide what comes here and what goes to the Library of Congress?
Well, there are laws, and I'm not the best person to talk about the statutes, but by law, permanent records of federal agencies are supposed to come to the National Archives.
And I'm sure that Susan could refer you to an archivist who could really give you concrete information on that.
Yes, the Library of Congress is really, that's exactly what it is, it's a library, and they, what comes to them are books that are published for, anything that comes to them in manuscript form comes to them as a gift.
There is no law that governs any
coming in and out, so anything that's considered permanently valuable from a federal point of view comes to us, which is only about two percent of everything that's generated by federal government.
What percent of it?
Two percent.
Now, I've been in this vault in the basement of Madisonville, and 18 documents in there, basically all manuscript material.
Shouldn't that be material that would be
But you'd think that that would be material that would be here, you know, thinking of the drafts of the Emexpatient Proclamation, and the Gettysburg Address, Lincoln's First and Seconds, and I'll be able to open it into all of the ages.
There's maybe just one printed book there that the Gutenberg Bible could be developed.
How was it that that material is at the Library of Congress and not here?
I think, in part, by virtue of when the archives was established, there was no federal archive.
And over the years there have been different approaches to different kinds of historical materials, presidential papers.
I think in the 1970s there was a law that was passed that related to
kind of the nature and ultimate custody of presidential materials.
Actually, if you admit, Maryland's right, the law was passed in the 1970s, but it didn't take effect until the beginning of the Reagan administration.
So he's the first president for whom we have papers that actually belong to the federal government of the American people.
Prior to that, presidents donated their papers to us, and so we don't have any inaugural addresses
Well, before Roosevelt, there's a tradition at the beginning of Roosevelt, but prior to that, inaugural address was to be at the Library of Congress, that it could be at a state or a local institution, a university library, or a private board, or destroyed.
And that was one reason why we finally decided that we needed an archive and a presidential library system and the law to govern those papers.
The presidential library system
So you administer all of these presidential libraries?
The archives, yes.
Do you go into a library like the Library of Congress, or Harvard, or the Morgan Library in New York, and you have special collections, rare books?
Do you have criteria here to distinguish rare?
which you consider rare material, the mundane, and the... Well, it's curious that an archive, as you know, since most everything is unique.
Not every little bit, but there is some redundancy on occasion.
But normally, the materials that we have are unique.
They don't exist anywhere else or in any other form.
So from that perspective, our buildings are vaults.
But within that, you're right, there are some things that would be considered top treasures or...
that have special qualities or characteristics, and that would include things that are security classified, that are kept in special areas with special access, and it also includes artifacts, things such as international treaties.
Artifacts on paper.
I think an artifact more likely is considered a three-dimensional object, so it might be a gift to the State Department, for example.
Could be a thing other than a document?
It could be a thing, yes.
We have a lot of weird things at the archives.
Before I put the tape recorder on, we were saying, people wonder, including myself, how would you distinguish between an archivist and a librarian?
And you're an archivist.
No, I'm not actually.
I'm a conservator.
You're a conservator.
Yes.
Another piece in the puzzle.
So you more or less rattle both disciplines, so to speak.
I think you have to be as knowledgeable as you can be, but they're very different spheres.
So I think if you actually have a lot of questions that relate to how materials come into our holdings and the law, I'm not the person to talk to.
Sure.
But in terms of talking about how we care for things— Which is very important.
Yeah.
So let's talk a little bit about that.
Do you also direct preservation efforts?
You mentioned that earlier.
You have the staff, I guess, at 24-3-5-7.
Right.
What we have actually is a preservation program and a director of that program, and then two units that fall under that.
relates to a lot of duplication needs for special media, things such as motion picture films, sound recordings, videotapes.
We do microfilming and still photography.
So the whole range of activities that respond to usually the special physical and chemical needs of non-textual media, things that are not paper-based that we know are going to degrade, that if they're not copied, information will be lost.
So we have many labs in this building devoted to
duplicating records in those formats.
So that's one part of the preservation picture here.
An area I've looked at, and do you have in the National Archives the library equivalent of brittle books?
You know, brittle books, you know, the brittle books from the acidic... Yes, we do.
Although I have always thought that the brittle book programs in libraries, that the issues were somewhat different in archives, that oftentimes, except during
war periods.
In general, the paper quality is probably a little bit better.
During wartime?
No.
During peacetime.
During peacetime, so that we have a lot of poor quality papers generated during wartimes.
But overall, I would not say that our biggest preservation problem is brittle paper.
Does the government mandate the use of nonacetic paper?
There is a law in effect now related to the use of permanent paper by
federal agencies for what are going to become permanent records.
How does one know in advance what record is going to be permanent?
Well, there's certain categories.
And the National Archives has a staff of archivists whose full-time responsibility is essentially working with federal agencies and their records officers and basically scheduling records
Normally, that is done by a series, a category of records, rather than going and looking at individual pieces of paper or individual photographs.
And can I just interject here for a minute?
Generally, this is done even before something is created.
So before a memo is created by Secretary Albright, who we know at the National Archives, is that going to come from that record?
By the nature of her position.
By the nature of who and what it is that she's going to be writing, you know, this memo regarding peace in Afghanistan or, you know, the Ulster TikToks or something like that.
That's already been cited in a schedule some years ago and it's always updated.
So it's not an after the fact thing, although they do that also, but it's really a before the fact thing.
So that's how we know
So there's a code basically that says if you have this level position, then the law says everything you generate as part of your duty is an archive that will be preserved.
And the National Archives provides a lot of guidance to federal agencies on how records should be stored, generated in some cases, what kind of paper is appropriate.
We have even done
guidance on agencies that are creating things in fax form, knowing that sometimes even a fax can become a permanent record.
Probably one of the more curious questions about what is a record are post-it notes.
And a number of years ago, we had inquiry from the White House when President Bush was in office because he loved to slather his presidential papers with the yellow post-it notes.
And the archival staff there knew that that was going to be a preservation issue because they would eventually fall off, and the context would be altered or lost.
So what did you deal with that?
Well, we began testing post-it notes, and we determined a couple of things that the adhesive can be damaging.
If you have media that isn't properly fixed, it can lift off things such as a laser print text that isn't secured.
It can leave behind adhesive residues so papers can stick together or that adhesive will attract dirt and debris.
We offered a couple of possible solutions, including making photocopies of the documents with the post-it notes in situ so you could capture that.
I think the other possibility at that point was using some kind of a fastener to secure them.
But you certainly want
Yes, that's part of the object in the presidential hand.
That's fascinating.
But records keep evolving, and it's a real challenge to keep up with the technology, even the paper technology.
You don't really think of post-its as part of the electronic age.
They have an impact.
So what did you finally do?
We just offered some solutions, and I'm not sure what options they followed.
And this is while his presidency was a work in progress.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Now, will all that material now go to the Bush Library?
Mm-hmm.
Or probably he's already there.
Right.
So the staff down there is undoubtedly dealing with it.
Will the guidelines be something I can gather, if you think?
You can get anything you want?
I mean, I'd love to see the guidelines that you... Oh, that's what's proposed?
Well, not just proposed.
The general guidelines that you issue to federal...
on the type of paper that they should use and the precautions they should use.
I can gather them together.
That would be great.
I'm using them.
The trick is to make this interesting for the general reader.
The electronic element.
Oh, no, before we get to that.
Okay, that's fine.
That's good.
Yes, that's very good.
You don't mind that one.
Yeah, but this is a very interesting question, because it is an issue that I'm encountering.
And we just recently, a few months ago, saw an item in the New Yorker about the pamphlets that they had microfilmed and then the accessions.
Actually, because they had to cut them up to do proper microfilming.
And then they were sold a book dealer, blah, blah, blah.
This is a long way of saying that for many, many years, and even today, it continues to be the fact that microfilming is considered a means of preservation.
And is that the case here?
That's a long question.
Yes.
Actually, I think it's probably one of the few enduring formats that we have available to us right now.
There are national standards that govern how microfilm is created, how it's processed, how the master film is stored, and there is a track record for stable photographic film.
And if you have a deteriorating artifact piece of tape and you microfilm it, do you still keep the original?
Yes, we do.
even if it's falling apart.
Unless you determine that you have a true archival microfilm copy, do you still keep it?
Typically that is the case.
We have done lots and lots of microfilming over the years.
I'm not aware of any instance where the archives has disposed of microfilmed records.
There's always that chance that perhaps the film did not capture everything.
I think that's part of it.
I think if you were really going to start disposing of records, you would have to be able to do 100% verification of content, which, as you can imagine, would be enormously expensive.
And we simply can't do that.
So there's kind of that fail-safe.
We have the original records that are withheld from use, so they're not going to get any worse, typically.
And we have the microfilms that researchers can use.
How about digital means as a preservation option?
Do you do that as well?
We do digitize records.
I think at this point at the Archives, that is considered an access tool.
It probably has some preservation benefits in that as we have more materials digitized, that will be another way of limiting handling of original records.
But it is not being done at this point.
for preservation purposes.
And I think that's probably one of the dichotomies in the whole field right now are the differences between institutions who are seeing it as the preservation mechanism versus those who see it as access.
Cornel, I mentioned earlier that they are really, I'm sure you were there, cutting edge.
Yes, definitely.
And in some instances, while I was there, they were scanning
the outgoing correspondence of Ezra Cornell, whom the institution was named.
Not in his hand, but it's early.
You know, it's pre-carbon paper, carbon paper, that precious stuff.
And so they had determined that these copies had no artifactual value.
The value was strictly the content.
And so I said, well, what are you going to do with these volumes when you finish copying them?
And they said, disposable.
That's not something that would ever happen here, I guess.
We have federal laws that preclude that option, really.
I mean, we're really in the business of permanently keeping records.
And the record is actually what was created in whatever form it was created.
It was created on paper.
That's the actual record.
Now, as Mary Lynn said, we do lots of things for preservation and access reasons, but in terms of what comes in here is what is the individual record.
That's a very key point, I have to say.
Also, then you have backup to this whole question of migration, you know, when you talk about digital
It's incredibly expensive to think about the long-term financial obligation to keep migrating digital information forward.
Is that Ken Thibodeau?
Who am I going to make it for?
We'll talk about that.
Oh, good.
Much easier to keep your master microfilm in a cave.
Yeah.
Cheaper over the long run.
At least right now.
But microfilm is actually a very reliable thing.
It is.
It started back in the 30s.
There was 20 prep probably even earlier than that.
We'll discuss that, the digital stuff.
But once you get rid of that original document, you had better be sure that you constantly migrate.
And I guess you do have a policy here, and we'll discuss that, of refreshing your material.
There's also the issue of what is human versus machine readable.
And I think a lot of the microfilming that we do
is actually human readable with just a magnifying glass.
So really you deal with the paper stuff.
You don't deal with the— Well, paper and photos and graphic materials, things like posters and architectural drawings and maps and a whole— But not electronic?
Everything but electronic, basically.
I think part of that gets back to the question that you raised about relative values.
Is everything co-equal because it's here in the archives, or do we treat some things differently?
We work very closely with the custodial archival staff to make decisions every year about what we're going to spend time treating, and the kinds of factors that we consider will include the relative value, knowing that there are such things.
A concept that is in use here is something called intrinsic value, and that relates to somewhat intangible issues that are applied
a series of criteria to determine the intrinsic value.
Is that codified?
Is that something?
It is, actually.
We have a for sure.
I'd love to see something on that.
Okay.
I can get you a copy if you don't have one.
That would be very useful.
Okay.
But one of the other important things that we think about is use, because we know that it's at the point of use that records are really in jeopardy.
Since we store them in environmentally controlled buildings with good housing,
If they're simply resting on shelves, there's not a whole lot that can go wrong.
So it's that interface between either a lot of use and handling by staff or researchers that will up the ante in terms of things requiring laboratory attention.
How much volume can you do in a year?
I mean, I've got members from the Library of Congress taking the next number of books they've staffed, and they go through kind of a triage thing, which I think is what you're describing.
determine intrinsic value, I guess, but you also take into account how desperately the object needs the intervention.
Right.
And then you get input from all the different divisions or departments, and they say, well, look, we have this that needs to be done.
Everybody says that.
And then you have to make a determination, I guess, on what you can do.
How much can you do?
Well, for example, this year we are going to be treating 5,000 roll documents from
our cartographic branch.
These documents were rolled probably shortly after they were created.
They've been with us for some time, and they can't really be handled until they receive conservation treatment.
And once they're flat, then they can be described and then used by researchers.
We had a similar project with rolled materials with rolled panorama photographs, and we had about 3,000 of those that simply were
have enrolled for decades.
Nobody knew what the images were, and we had a project that lasted for about two years to systematically go through and humidify flatten and then treat.
Where did they come in from?
A wide variety of agencies, but a lot from the military.
The Army seemed to like these special circuit cameras.
And so then you were given custody of these things already, I guess, in a distressed state.
Right, yes.
When the archives received them, they were enrolled.
So then you made it a priority.
How did it come out?
Yes.
In fact, we have an exhibit downstairs of some selected panoramic images that were treated during this process.
This was a priority for the archival staff, so they raised it with conservation as a need that they saw because they simply did not have access to those records.
What would you say is the greatest?
Is there any particular urgency for any kinds of documents that they need yet?
Probably one of the biggest areas relates to film-based materials, and Susan mentioned that we've had problems that at this point are kind of historical with nitrate film, but the big problem at the moment are acetate films.
The precursor
basically to the contemporary safety films that we're using now that are largely polyester-based, but the cellulose diacetate films that have problems with the base shrinking, the emulsion then cockling and buckling.
And if you don't capture and make copies of these things before they start going through that physical change, you lose information.
And we have millions of acetate negatives from all departments.
And it's a problem that actually crosses custodial lines because you think of still photos as having an acetate problem, but in our cartographic holdings there are a lot of plastic overlays that are used with maps, and those are acetate plaps and such, and those also are subject to the same kind of degradation.
So there can be loss wherever that kind of material is found.
How about magnetic tape?
Is that something you deal with?
the archives deals with it in terms of basically duplicating such things as sound and video recording.
Any primary material like the JPL, for instance, the Viking data, which was originally stored on magnetic tape, and they're finding that tragically a lot of that material hasn't held up because of the
the nature of the medium itself.
Yeah, I'm not sure that we have custody of that or not.
No, I don't think so, but that's the stuff that can deal with that.
You know, that's what he worries about, is migrating stuff also.
And I hope we've got that together.
Do you want to take a look around the lounge?
Yeah, sure.
They are fully equipped with the pupus and things.
This is a wet treatment.
Spotless suit.
Yes.
I must say.
And this facility, is it open for five years?
We've been in residence at the beginning of about four years ago.
It took a while to get everybody... It said 1985 and the steel out there at the front, so that must be when they started that.
How would you describe that?
What would you compare it to?
It really is.
It's the largest archival facility in the world, isn't it?
I think so.
I don't know how many churches.
I used to know, you know, I used to roll right off my tongue, but it's gone now.
I mean, when the building turned up, you know, 500 miles.
500 miles?
Is this not one building, by the way?
Yes, it is.
So this is another lab comparable in size to the one that we received now.
There are a lot of interesting projects going on, including this one.
This is Sarah Wagner, who is our photo conservator, and she's looking actually on one of the
the groups of records that are considered to be photographic treasures of the National Archives.
I don't know if you have anything that you can show us there that is an image that you have acceptable.
When researchers come,
Do you hope that they'll use microfilm?
Well, they can't on most of our stuff because very little of it is microfilm, really.
What, what, Mary Lynn, is it 10% of our Holy John Lecture?
10%?
I think so.
And that, I mean, as Mary Lynn said, we try to select our heavily used records.
I mean, that's one criteria.
So all of our census materials are... Civil War?
These are Gardner and Bernard's vintage photographs.
And what Sarah is involved in doing is removing the photo and if there's a caption on the back from the original mount.
And you can see the difference kind of before and after.
Wow.
And these are kind of— The board is— Sigma Core Photo Laboratory.
Oh, can I take a picture?
Do you mind?
Is that something I can or I can't do?
And this is, by the way, two signatures of photos in my book, so I've taken hundreds of photographs, but this really just helps me, and I won't use a flash.
I've got the date right on there, which is great.
1664.
It could be used in a book.
Oh, I'll write it.
You could have used a flash on me.
Well, actually, this is because it's available light.
This is nice.
It's actually very good.
Yeah.
But I mentioned the project to flatten the panoramas, and that's the project that Sarah was responsible for, which was a very large project over several years.
I sure like the little object below, too.
That was fine.
I got a sense of the mask.
No, no.
I like the side.
You can work.
I don't have anything to do.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thank you, Sarah.
Hello.
Hi.
How are you?
This is Miranda Martin.
Hello.
And she's actually working on a map, yes.
And this might be some of the same time period of this photo.
Really?
Yeah.
Your eligibility.
I'm sorry?
I'm sorry, your name is?
Yeah, I'm Nicholas Basden, B-A-S-B-A-N.
And where are you from, Mr. Basden?
I'm from Massachusetts, and I'm working on a book on archives and libraries and book culture and all kinds of things, and I'm a present agent.
Yeah, this is a map from a series of maps run by...
The reason that this is particularly valuable is because it's got the manuscript annotations, the colored annotations.
Evidently the red are occupied for it, the blue are unoccupied for it, and there isn't a key for all the other colors.
It has had a process done to it, which is called silky.
And this is pretty common at the end of the last entry, beginning of this.
And it's actually a very thin layer of silk.
You can see what it looks like here.
And it was glued to the mat, very much the way lamination would be later to hold something that was falling apart together.
And the silk becomes brittle.
probably a lettuce silk, it's extremely acidic.
It really is terrible for the paper.
And this one is also backed with canvas.
And the amount of time that would have taken me to get the filtering off, which is what we would ideally like to have done, was so great considering there are other copies of this map.
that they ask me simply to stabilize it.
So there are areas where the silking is pulling the paper together and so I'm cutting it in those areas and I'll flatten it so it'll be easier to read and I'll encapsulate it with a stiffener behind it so it'll be vandalable.
And that's the kind of decision you have to make in a collection like this.
You want somebody to spend weeks on something.
How much time are you spending on this?
In the end, I'm hoping to be able to finish in about 40 hours.
I've already spent about 30 hours examining the math as part of the documentation process.
And it was at the end of that process that I said, I'm not going to be able to do this as fast as I thought I was.
And at that point, we went back to the curators and said, gee, I really thought I was going to be able to do this in a couple of weeks, and I can't.
So given that information, do you want me to go and still do some
big treatment and now take a lot of time, or do you want me to do a much more minor treatment?
And basically we make it so we can handle it.
And what again, is it a map of, did you say?
It's a map of the Western United States territory.
And despite the fact that there are other conferences that this is the uniqueness, the annotations on this are unique.
So it still is of great interest.
And which department of the government did it come in from, do you think?
The military is like that.
Army.
Great.
Thank you.
It's great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
I would like to show you a little bit of one of the larger .
Wow.
That looks like a lithographic.
Do you think that's lithographic?
Yes, it is.
Wow.
These are a series
How are these stores?
Do you have, actually, facilities that... Well, I wanted to show you the housing that we're making today, and maybe just looking briefly and talking about it in a tent of... Oh, he's crazy.
They're really quite amazing.
They really are.
...in the series of three or four panels that we have been, almost like a building, to form the work in
Yeah, these came to the lab and just all folded up and rolled.
And very luckily, the archivist that saw them for the challenge that they were had handled.
So basically, from the time they were transferred from the Army to the archives, they had not been accessed.
So it's been a very big challenge for us to get them to the point that we could begin even to see what they were and how they were created.
Were they a billboard, do you figure?
There's a series of panels.
Each of the units is composed typically of three pieces of paper that's joined together, so that each would have been printed separately as a little part of the panel, joined together, and then these larger units together.
I wouldn't have read the presence of mind to preserve this.
It almost seems like an ephemeral object, doesn't it?
I think you're right.
It's probably very few of these that it's here.
What do you think?
It's World War I era?
World War I. The spurs kind of give it away.
But they're beautiful.
I love lithographs.
Are there other?
We have two different managers.
A-L-A-N-E-L-A.
um there is one poster that is um disassembled um and this is the housing for that one poster the posters we were just looking at actually of a neighbor if you'd like to see that we can show it to you if you want an overall complete image but um what we had to do was to determine whether or not
there was sufficient space up in the stack area to accommodate flat storage because we knew that we didn't want to re-roll the .
And then to come up with a system so that it could be transported through the building and returned in a flat format and also photographed so that we have access to the image for researchers without any future handling.
So the materials that Alan is using, you can see the profile of this board, which looks like a honeycomb.
It's called picor, and it's a paper honeycomb that is spaced with strong paper.
So it's very rigid and lightweight, and still can be pieced together to whatever size you would need.
Alan, what are the dimensions here?
Would you estimate about 12 feet by 10 feet?
That is my guess.
9 feet is 9 feet.
So where do you keep something like this permanently?
Do you keep it in this housing?
Do you have a space that will accommodate that?
It will be in this one item in this housing.
We'll have a lid that will be strapped on and it will be kept on the top of map cases up in our still picture branch.
We don't have a drawer big enough for it, but with several map cases
butted together.
We have enough space that's flat.
So somebody has made a determination that this particular artifact is very important.
Yes.
Because you are committing a lot of very valuable real estate to it.
Exactly.
Aren't you?
Not to mention the resources to treat it.
The treatise to houses, the photography has been quite amazing as well.
But it's unique to our holding.
Oh, it is.
That's important.
And we also believe that they are very
scarce, if not unique, in the world.
Well, I've seen where posters go far at options, and I can agree, and I've never seen anything quite like this.
Now, what if I'm a scholar doing an article or a book on social history, and I want to study these.
Are you going to bring this out to me in the reading room?
Unfortunately for you.
I know it's a silly question.
No, it isn't really.
We have actually a very wonderful graphic
collection of posters.
And what we have done is basically provided slides and there's a collection of those slides in the reading room so that researchers access the images via that tool.
So for this particular artifact, this falls into the 10% which has been
photographs or microfilmed or whatever, and I assume that the photographs are true color reproductions, so you would hope that that satisfies the curiosity of the scholar, right?
Right.
We did color transparency with these, and from the transparencies we will make slides.
And the other thing that we're doing with this, and this is the access angle
is to take the transparencies of these multiple panels and then digitally put them together to form a complete image.
So then we can have output from that that will be something that researchers and others can use as their access to this information.
And sometimes, I'm not saying that it would occur with this because probably it wouldn't, but unique items that are so-called retired
scholars and others who only have access through lodge or whatever might still be taken out to be put on exhibit you know on a rare occasion but somewhat the treaty it is obviously available in printed form and that's the way most people would read it we would still use those treaties for exhibitions and other purposes
And there have been times, and in fact, I can look at one treaty in particular, in which a judge wanted to come.
In fact, he traveled all the way to Washington from Texas to see a particular treaty.
I mean, in public law, I don't know what time it was signed, because there was some sort of case that he had in Texas, and there was a time difference of when the law was passed, and he wanted to make sure
the case that he had at the time that had been committed that happened before, after that particular time, he had to come to see the original law because the time that the sign was on there and it wasn't on the need of printed copies.
So there are reasons beyond the intrinsic value to keep these, you know, unique items.
And very recently, speaking of treaties, we had members of the Navajo Nation coming to Washington because they wanted to see the treaties.
Do the Native American tribes have their own archives?
There are some, I believe, yes.
And actually there's a publication that was put out by the Society of American Archivists on, I forget the title, but it's on Native American archives and how to establish such.
Society of American Archivists?
They're located in Chicago, comparable to the American Library Association.
It's quite different.
Also in Chicago?
Yes, that's right.
And they did an article on... No, they did a manual, basically, directed towards people who wanted to establish tribal archives.
Very important thing.
I'm mostly doing a chapter on emigrate and exile libraries.
the Cambodian people who were killed, of course, with all the books and the records, and I'm doing something on Sarajevo and Tibet, you know, and also historically, but also today.
So things like that, my life flashed.
Did you want to do that?
I'd love to, yes.
Alan, could we stick over?
Thank you.
Thanks.
Alan, how do you do that?
Oh, that's fantastic.
That's going into the houses?
That's going into that large house.
Do you know a colonel for this?
Do you know where it came from, where it was?
Yes.
Records of the Army.
So you have that?
That is really simple.
That's interesting.
Part of the problem with the treatment of these folks is the fact that when the individual sheep are joined together, they reside in the way that the people are dressed and so they have to do with most things in the community.
So there is kind of a very much more compared to a similar way.
Is it something that just recently came to you?
Yes.
Or is it something that you've had for a while?
It's been at the Archives for kind of my time, and it was in the text profile.
What is the only one that says to the other one?
The other one that says to the other one.
I was just wondering.
We didn't want them to.
I was just going to say, I bet you didn't want them to.
Susan was mentioning the possibility of exhibition, and I think it is unlikely that they will ever be exhibited in original format because I don't think that they will fit into our exhibit gallery.
Yeah, you know, I was thinking about that, but you guys really lucked out on that.
So there's an exhibit gallery here?
Oh, downtown.
We have periodic visits here, but only of non-originals.
So the housing will incorporate these little support groups so that the paper won't structure or collapse.
That has to be quite a challenging
because you don't want to tack it, you don't want to put any holes in it, you don't want to adhere it with any kind of adhesive.
And how do you do it without, you know...
the breadth of our photo collection, for example, we have over 7 million photos in the archives.
Look at this, this is easier than a football field.
Oh, yeah.
I think it's the second largest building, I mean, several building in the Pentagon.
This is, the Pentagon is larger?
I think so.
Those five rings.
But this is enormous.
I didn't know this.
Why isn't it a federal library?
Well, it's a long and complicated and it's not a boring story.
I could probably point it in LexisNexis, right?
It's a lawsuit.
The ongoing students relating to Nixon.
The tapes and stuff.
The White House who wanted to take his tapes with him because prior to Nixon's president had custody over there on the sheriff and he donated them to the federal government.
There was a Supreme Court law that was just for the Nixon papers.
It said that these papers really were the property of the federal government.
And in fact, we're now involved in another issue.
With Nixon's people?
Yes, about him being compensated for that paper.
How can he be compensated?
He was a federal employee when they were generated.
Well, that's true, but there was no law at the time, and there weren't been noted because the president could keep their papers.
So he kept them.
While the Supreme Court said that they did, in fact, want us, it was also decided in the Court of Appeals that, in fact, we should be compensated for the taking such as papers.
So we're just about to go to trial to determine what the worth of the papers are.
Calvin, how are you?
This is Calvin Jefferson.
Yes, how are you?
How are you?
Thank you.
Calvin is our supervisory archivist who's really in charge of all this user services research room.
So he's going to do a good tour of the building.
And just so you know, I'm taping, okay?
It's just taping?
I'm getting taped.
If you don't, if you want me to just check it off, I will, but it just helps me.
We'll start here because he needs to know exactly how we get researchers here and everything.
Right, right.
Okay.
When researchers first come into the National Archives, this is the first time.
When they come in here, we will ask the researcher, what kind of research are you doing?
And they will tell us.
One of the things that we do, we kind of screen people.
If you're looking for some
information that's not in the Horns National Archives, we'll tell you that, and we're not going to give you a card.
If the information is here, we ask you to sit at the computer, hit the space bar, and fill out the information so we can get you a research card.
And then from there, we tell you where you have to go to get the expert information.
And depending upon what records you're doing, that's what we send you.
If you're doing military records, we tell you to go to the sexual research room, sign in that room, and go down to room 2400 and talk to one of the archivists of 2400.
If you're dealing with records from a civilian agency, same procedure, but you go to them 26 times.
If you're doing calligraphic records or architectural drawings, we tell the researchers you need to go into the third floor research room where those records are and talk to one of the architects.
Motion pictures, sound recording, and videotapes, they would go to the fourth floor research room.
And if it's still pictures, they would go to the sixth floor research room.
But depending upon the media that you're researching, that will be the room that you would go into.
And then we also explain to them that they can only take certain things in the research room.
If you have notes, we will approve the notes to go in and stamp them.
And we do that to distinguish what belongs to you as an individual as opposed to what belongs to the federal government.
So we have to stamp everything that you take in.
We ask people not to bring in briefcases or any type of enclosures.
Pens.
No pens.
Number two pencils, probably.
Sometimes we don't have number two.
There's always a pencil.
And the reason why we do that is that we found that some researchers have a tendency to actually write on a document.
And once you write a document, you begin to destroy the document.
So we don't want you to do that.
So we have to use the console.
We can always erase the lead on the console.
See, when you use the word researcher here, that could really be anyone.
We're not talking like a scholar at Harvard.
No, you don't need to have a picture ID, right?
Picture ID.
So you haven't been schooled in scholarly disciplines.
I mean, I would know never to bring a pen, for instance, into a reading room.
At the same time, you'd be surprised how many scholars want to use pens.
How many scholars want to take in briefcases?
How many scholars want to take and go through the records the way they want to, not the way we ask them to?
So even scholars are sometimes not prepared to come into research in the National Archives.
How many researchers do you accommodate a year, approximately?
Good question.
I don't know any.
We have probably our last annual report we have.
That would be of interest to me.
Okay, the vast majority of our researchers are... Seniorologists, yeah.
Maybe 80%.
But that's very important stuff for these people.
Do you have one of those archives, too, brochures?
Is that an extra one?
Yeah.
Is that the only one you have?
No, we have one.
I think I'll give you all that stuff, all those figures, stacking figures that you want.
This is Rick Blondo.
Rick normally gets scores.
Don't give us much.
But some of the technical information that you need, we're going to ask Rick.
How many research did we get in a year?
A year?
I think I have some .
Can I take it?
Sure.
No, here and downtown.
So there's no reading, there's no research done downtown?
Yes, there is.
Oh, there is?
Oh, sure.
That building is still a very vital building.
What's been on there?
The records are kind of split, and the primarily records that we have downtown are legislative records, records dealing with government agencies prior to World War I, prior to 1900.
records that have been categorized as genealogical records, genie records.
And that becomes kind of a question mark because any record that we have can be associated with genealogy if we know how to use the records.
So when we talk about classic genie records, we're talking about the census report, pension files,
Revolutionary War, the Civil War, War of 1812, the N.A., and I think World War I, a Pinchiff House downtown.
The immigration, past the arrival of, they're downtown.
The immigration records are downtown.
What about land records, are they downtown?
I think so.
And aren't our judicial records downtown?
They're downtown.
And the census for Indian population census was downtown.
Those records would keep downtown.
Now, what's out here are records that primarily began with 1900.
Correct me if I'm wrong here.
What?
Records primarily began with 1900 out here.
Okay, that's right.
I should correct me if I'm wrong.
Eric is another archivist out here that gives tours.
Certain general categories of records take that count.
That includes genealogy records.
Just give it a little bit of a second.
You know what I'm saying?
Okay.
Well, your things count in that general .
Most recently I have the 96th annual report.
That's good.
Most recently what we put out, right?
Yeah, right.
The stats are here for the Washington, D.C.
area.
It's both our buildings.
57,510 microfilm researchers and 56,807 non-microfilm.
Those numbers go up every year.
So you're welcome to TV.
Thank you.
Is that the only stat you needed?
I doubt it.
That's a lot of information.
Sounds good.
So if I were to come here, if I wanted to see my military records, for instance, from the low 60s, this is where I'd come?
No.
Unit records are here, but your service records are in St.
Louis, Missouri.
No, they were Navy records.
Navy records are in St.
Louis, Missouri.
All military records.
All service records.
Service records.
Fitness reports are all there, too?
St.
Louis.
Anything that relates to one's personal records, I mean, we'll kind of know it.
But is that a National Archives facility?
Yeah.
And what a lot of people are doing to search in Vietnam, they're coming here to get the reports, the data reports, and they will show the activity so they can show where they were wounded and get their claims done.
Some of the other people are doing genealogy like that.
That's why their gene records become questionable.
Because if someone's father was killed over Vietnam, they come here to search the history of the unit to see if they can find out what happened to their parents.
That's happening now, too.
I think they're becoming broader now than they were before because you even get people who are doing cardiology to come out here to look at the pictures to get an image of how somebody lived in the late 1800s, 1800s.
So they're doing that.
It's all four of my grandparents who came to Ellis Island, that'd be downtown.
All of the maps, all of the photographs, all of the motion pictures now, because they needed special housing in this building.
It's much easier to design, to save the air preservation.
Here's a question for you.
The German National Library, for instance, they hope is sufficient well into the 21st century.
This building has been open for four years.
What do you project?
How long will this facility
to accommodate the records of the United States.
And was that figured into the plans, I wonder?
It was.
It was, but we had lots of crime times.
You know, the changes we put in.
When government gets larger, we grow.
When government gets smaller, we grow.
Offers to check out and finish the records.
A lot of things, a lot of very large set records come in.
We didn't know where it would come.
The finish of the vision of what's here in downtown.
Okay.
Genealogical records also include land records, records related to Indian, and military records before World War II.
Records of Congress, records of courts, accepting those courts which are records which are in the regional facilities, World War I agency records, Depression-era records.
In general, any agency which is not going to grow, which is defunct, not an outlaw or something else.
Records relating to D.C., District of Columbia.
I think that covers all of it and that everything else is out here.
So you're going to get records out here from all time periods.
If the State Department starts in 1789, it's the first cabinet agency, so we have State Department records going that far back.
It depends on what the agency was doing and when it was created.
We also have the Kennedy assassination records here, and we have, of course, what I was showing you, the Nixon Project.
You mean the Warren Commission records?
Well, yes, but we also, since then, there was a law that was passed in the Congress a few years back.
saying that any agency that still had any records relating to the Kennedy assassination, which is a very broad category of records, needed to turn them over to the National Archives.
So hundreds of thousands of pages have come to us in the last five years.
And the Nixon papers include 44 million pages.
These are here.
What's 44?
And those would, you know, if we had a Nixon library that was a federal facility,
at the library, but at the moment.
How about the other presidents who were assassinating?
No, because Congress wanted to kind of... It was really based on the controversy, actually, to be frank.
It was based on Oliver Stone's film.
That created a big hullabaloo in the Congress, and they wanted to kind of reopen the...
not reopen the investigation, but to make sure that all of the records were actually declassified and in one place.